Tutorial for using Asymmetric models (#3258)
opensearch-project/ml-commons: docs/tutorials/semantic_search/asymmetric_embedding_model.md

# Tutorial: Generating Embeddings Using a Local Asymmetric Embedding Model in OpenSearch

This tutorial demonstrates how to generate text embeddings using an asymmetric embedding model in OpenSearch, implemented within a Docker container. The example model used in this tutorial is the multilingual `intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` model from Hugging Face. You will learn how to prepare the model, register it in OpenSearch, and run inference to generate embeddings.

> **Note**: Make sure to replace all placeholders (e.g., `your_`) with your specific values.

---

## Prerequisites

- Docker Desktop installed and running on your local machine.
- Basic familiarity with Docker and OpenSearch.
- Access to the Hugging Face model `intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` (or another model of your choice).
---

## Step 1: Spin Up a Docker OpenSearch Cluster

> To run OpenSearch in a local development environment, you can use Docker and a pre-configured `docker-compose` file.

Reviewer: This is not a requirement? I think the step 2-6 can also be done if you run an OpenSearch cluster locally without a docker?

Author: Thats true, I chose a docker setup since there aren't many tutorials using it.

  }
}
```

This configuration ensures that OpenSearch can accept machine learning models from external URLs and can run models across non-ML nodes.

### b. Use a Docker Compose File

You can use this sample [file](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#sample-docker-compose-file-for-development) as an example.
Once your `docker-compose.yml` file is ready, run the following command to start OpenSearch in the background:

```
docker-compose up -d
```

---

## Step 2: Prepare the Model for OpenSearch

In this tutorial, we’ll use the Hugging Face model `intfloat/multilingual-e5-small`, which is capable of generating multilingual embeddings. Follow these steps to prepare and zip the model for use in OpenSearch.

### a. Clone the Model from Hugging Face

To download the model, use the following steps:

1. Install Git Large File Storage (LFS) if you haven’t already:

   ```
   git lfs install
   ```

2. Clone the model repository:

   ```
   git clone https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small
   ```

This will download the model files into a directory on your local machine.

### b. Zip the Model Files

> In order to upload the model to OpenSearch, you must zip the necessary model files (`model.onnx`, `sentencepiece.bpe.model`, and `tokenizer.json`). The `model.onnx` file is located in the `onnx` directory of the cloned repository.

Reviewer 2: Is the onnx the only format that this model provided? Can we add pytorch format tutorial here?

Author: Hey Zane! I can see why you ask Ill clarify that this is only for onnx, I havent used pytorch models so thats I wrote it like that

Reviewer 2: Got it, my suggestion is we can add both onnx and pytorch cases so that user can choose between them based on their cases.

Run OpenSearch and ensure the following steps are completed. In this example, we set up the OS cluster locally.

###  Update cluster settings

Ensure your cluster is configured to allow registering models. You can do this by updating the cluster settings using the following request:

```
PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "plugins.ml_commons.allow_registering_model_via_url": "true",
    "plugins.ml_commons.only_run_on_ml_node": "false",
    "plugins.ml_commons.model_access_control_enabled": "true",
    "plugins.ml_commons.native_memory_threshold": "99"
  }
}
```

This configuration ensures that OpenSearch can accept machine learning models from external URLs and can run models across non-ML nodes.

---

## Step 2: Prepare the model for OpenSearch

In this tutorial, you’ll use the Hugging Face `intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` model, which is capable of generating multilingual embeddings. Follow these steps to prepare and zip the model for use in OpenSearch.

### a. Clone the model from Hugging Face

To download the model, use the following steps:

1. Install Git Large File Storage (LFS) if you haven’t already:

   ```
   git lfs install
   ```

> 2. Clone the model repository:

Reviewer 3: Rather than lfs install or cloning the whole repository may be we can do?

Create a Directory for the Files:

```
mkdir multilingual-e5-model
cd multilingual-e5-model
```

Download the Files Using wget or curl: Use the raw file links from the Hugging Face repository.

```
wget https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small/resolve/main/onnx/model.onnx
wget https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small/resolve/main/tokenizer.json
wget https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small/resolve/main/sentencepiece.bpe.model
```

Alternatively, use curl:

```
curl -O https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small/resolve/main/onnx/model.onnx
curl -O https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small/resolve/main/tokenizer.json
curl -O https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small/resolve/main/sentencepiece.bpe.model
```

Author: I hear you on this but lets suppose there is a new update on the model. user would have to delete and make a separate request. Also I think separate requests would cause issues since these are big files users are working on. Also its possible the endpoint can change or someone changes directories for a clean up. We lock ourselves into maintaining a tutorial for their changes

Reviewer 3: >lets suppose there is a new update on the model. user would have to delete and make a separate request.

Yeah, if they want to use the new updated model, don't they need to do the same for your case to use the updated model? They need to pull the updates from the git.

>its possible the endpoint can change or someone changes directories for a clean up. We lock ourselves into maintaining a tutorial for their changes

I think this is true for both cases, if they change the file name, we need to update the doc in both cases, right?

My thought process is, in this way:

1. customer doesn't need to install git & git lfs
2. customer doesn't need to downlaod unnecessary package which they don't need anymore.

This is not a blocker, but a suggestion.

   ```
   git clone https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small
   ```

This will download the model files into a directory on your local machine.

### b. Zip the model files

> To upload the model to OpenSearch, you must zip the necessary model files (`model.onnx`, `sentencepiece.bpe.model`, and `tokenizer.json`). The `model.onnx` file is located in the `onnx` directory of the cloned repository.

Reviewer 3: all these three files are located in `onnx` directory, not just `model.onnx`

Author: Addressed in latest commit! c43e9a5de

# Tutorial: Running Asymmetric Semnantic Search within OpenSearch

> This tutorial demonstrates how to generate text embeddings using an asymmetric embedding model in OpenSearch which will be used

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates generating text embeddings using an asymmetric embedding model in OpenSearch. The embeddings will be used
```

> to run semantic search. This is implemented within a Docker container, the example model used in this tutorial is the multilingual

Reviewer 4: Can you replace "this" with a noun? Is it the search that is implemented within a Docker container?
```suggestion
to run semantic search, implemented within a Docker container. The example model used in this tutorial is the multilingual
```

Author: Docker isnt anything special to this tutorial usually tutorials are made with running OpenSearch locally. I figured I used docker since there aren't many tutorials using it.

`intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` model from Hugging Face. 

> You will learn how to prepare the model, register it in OpenSearch, and run inference to generate embeddings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you'll learn how to prepare the model, register it in OpenSearch, and run inference to generate embeddings.
```

> **Note**: Make sure to replace all placeholders (e.g., `your_`) with your specific values.

---

## Prerequisites

- Docker Desktop installed and running on your local machine.
- Basic familiarity with Docker and OpenSearch.

> - Access to the Hugging Face model `intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` (or another model of your choice).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Access to the Hugging Face `intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` model (or another model of your choice).
```

---

> ## Step 1: Spin Up a Docker OpenSearch Cluster

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Spin up a Docker OpenSearch cluster
```

> To run OpenSearch in a local development environment, you can use Docker and a pre-configured `docker-compose` file.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To run OpenSearch in a local development environment, you can use Docker and a preconfigured `docker-compose` file.
```

> ### a. Update Cluster Settings

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### a. Update cluster settings
```

> Before proceeding, ensure your cluster is configured to allow registering models. You can do this by updating the cluster settings via the following request:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Before proceeding, ensure your cluster is configured to allow registering models. You can do this by updating the cluster settings using the following request:
```

```
PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "plugins.ml_commons.allow_registering_model_via_url": "true",
    "plugins.ml_commons.only_run_on_ml_node": "false",
    "plugins.ml_commons.model_access_control_enabled": "true",
    "plugins.ml_commons.native_memory_threshold": "99"
  }
}
```

This configuration ensures that OpenSearch can accept machine learning models from external URLs and can run models across non-ML nodes.

> ### b. Use a Docker Compose File

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### b. Create a Docker Compose file
```

> You can use this sample [file](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#sample-docker-compose-file-for-development) as an example.

Reviewer 4: Is there any specific directory this file should be in?

Author: So as long as the user can find it and run the terminal command its fine. Although they can be organized and create a folder and place it there but I think thats TMI haha

> Once your `docker-compose.yml` file is ready, run the following command to start OpenSearch in the background:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once your `docker-compose.yml` file is created, run the following command to start OpenSearch in the background:
```

```
docker-compose up -d
```

---

> ## Step 2: Prepare the Model for OpenSearch

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Prepare the model for OpenSearch
```

> In this tutorial, we’ll use the Hugging Face model `intfloat/multilingual-e5-small`, which is capable of generating multilingual embeddings. Follow these steps to prepare and zip the model for use in OpenSearch.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you’ll use the Hugging Face `intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` model, which is capable of generating multilingual embeddings. Follow these steps to prepare and zip the model for use in OpenSearch.
```

> ### a. Clone the Model from Hugging Face

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### a. Clone the model from Hugging Face
```

To download the model, use the following steps:

1. Install Git Large File Storage (LFS) if you haven’t already:

   ```
   git lfs install
   ```

2. Clone the model repository:

   ```
   git clone https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small
   ```

This will download the model files into a directory on your local machine.

> ### b. Zip the Model Files

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### b. Zip the model files
```

> In order to upload the model to OpenSearch, you must zip the necessary model files (`model.onnx`, `sentencepiece.bpe.model`, and `tokenizer.json`). The `model.onnx` file is located in the `onnx` directory of the cloned repository.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To upload the model to OpenSearch, you must zip the necessary model files (`model.onnx`, `sentencepiece.bpe.model`, and `tokenizer.json`). The `model.onnx` file is located in the `onnx` directory of the cloned repository.
```

Run the following command in the directory containing these files:

```
zip -r intfloat-multilingual-e5-small-onnx.zip model.onnx tokenizer.json sentencepiece.bpe.model
```

> This command will create a zip file named `intfloat-multilingual-e5-small-onnx.zip`, with the previous mentioned files.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This command will create a zip file named `intfloat-multilingual-e5-small-onnx.zip`, with all necessary files.
```

> ### c. Calculate the Model File Hash

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### c. Calculate the model file's hash
```

Before registering the model, you need to calculate the SHA-256 hash of the zip file. Run this command to generate the hash:

```
shasum -a 256 intfloat-multilingual-e5-small-onnx.zip
```

> Make a note of the hash value, as you will need it during the model registration process.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Note the hash value; you'll need it during model registration.
```

> ### d. Serve the Model File Using a Python HTTP Server

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### d. Serve the model file using a Python HTTP server
```

> To allow OpenSearch to access the model file, you need to serve it via HTTP. Since this is a local development environment, you can use Python's built-in HTTP server:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To allow OpenSearch to access the model file, you need to serve it through HTTP. Because this tutorial uses a local development environment, you can use Python's built-in HTTP server:
```

Navigate to the directory containing the zip file and run the following command:

```
python3 -m http.server 8080 --bind 0.0.0.0
```

This will serve the zip file at `http://0.0.0.0:8080/intfloat-multilingual-e5-small-onnx.zip`. After registering the model, you can stop the server by pressing `Ctrl + C`.

---

> ## Step 3: Register a Model Group

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Register a model group
```

Before registering the model itself, you need to create a model group. This helps organize models in OpenSearch. Run the following request to create a new model group:

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/model_groups/_register
{
  "name": "Asymmetric Model Group",
  "description": "A model group for local asymmetric models"
}
```

> Take note of the `model_group_id` returned in the response, as it will be required when registering the model.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Note the `model_group_id` returned in the response; you'll use it to register the model.
```

---

> ## Step 4: Register the Model

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Register the model
```

> Now that you have the model zip file and the model group ID, you can register the model in OpenSearch. Run the following request:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Now that you have the model zip file and the model group ID, you can register the model in OpenSearch:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
    "name": "e5-small-onnx",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "Asymmetric multilingual-e5-small model",
    "model_format": "ONNX",
    "model_group_id": "your_group_id",
    "model_content_hash_value": "your_model_zip_content_hash_value",
    "model_config": {
        "model_type": "bert",
        "embedding_dimension": 384,
        "framework_type": "sentence_transformers",
        "query_prefix": "query: ",
        "passage_prefix": "passage: ",
        "all_config": "{ \"_name_or_path\": \"intfloat/multilingual-e5-small\", \"architectures\": [ \"BertModel\" ], \"attention_probs_dropout_prob\": 0.1, \"hidden_size\": 384, \"num_attention_heads\": 12, \"num_hidden_layers\": 12, \"tokenizer_class\": \"XLMRobertaTokenizer\" }"
    },
    "url": "http://host.docker.internal:8080/intfloat-multilingual-e5-small-onnx.zip"
}
```

> Replace `your_group_id` and `your_model_zip_content_hash_value` with the actual values from earlier. This will initiate the model registration process, and you’ll receive a task ID in the response.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Replace `your_group_id` and `your_model_zip_content_hash_value` with the values from previos steps. This will initiate the model registration process, and you’ll receive a task ID in the response.
```

> To check the status of the registration, run:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To check the status of the registration, run the following request:
```

```
GET /_plugins/_ml/tasks/your_task_id
```

> Once successful, note the `model_id` returned, as you'll need it for deployment and inference.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once successful, note the `model_id` returned; you'll need it for deployment and inference.
```

---

> ## Step 5: Deploy the Model

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Step 5: Deploy the model
```

> After the model is registered, you can deploy it by running:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After the model is registered, you can deploy it by running the following request:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_deploy
```

Check the status of the deployment using the task ID:

```
GET /_plugins/_ml/tasks/your_task_id
```

> When the model is successfully deployed, it will be in the **DEPLOYED** state, and you can use it for inference.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When the model is successfully deployed, its state will change to **DEPLOYED**, and you can use it for inference.
```

---

> ## Step 6: Run Inference

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Step 6: Run inference
```

Now that your model is deployed, you can use it to generate text embeddings for both queries and passages.

> ### a. Generating Passage Embeddings

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Generating passage embeddings
```

To generate embeddings for a passage, use the following request:

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/_predict/text_embedding/your_model_id
{
  "parameters": {
    "content_type": "passage"
  },
  "text_docs": [
    "Today is Friday, tomorrow will be my break day. After that, I will go to the library. When is lunch?"
  ],
  "target_response": ["sentence_embedding"]
}
```

The response will include a sentence embedding of size 384:

```
{
  "inference_results": [
    {
      "output": [
        {
          "name": "sentence_embedding",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [384],
          "data": [0.0419328, 0.047480892, ..., 0.31158513, 0.21784715]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

> ### b. Generating Query Embeddings

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Generating query embeddings
```

Similarly, you can generate embeddings for a query:

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/_predict/text_embedding/your_model_id
{
  "parameters": {
    "content_type": "query"
  },
  "text_docs": ["What day is it today?"],
  "target_response": ["sentence_embedding"]
}
```

The response will look like this:

```
{
  "inference_results": [
    {
      "output": [
        {
          "name": "sentence_embedding",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [384],
          "data": [0.2338349, -0.13603798, ..., 0.37335885, 0.10653384]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

---

> # Applying Semantic Search using an ML Inference processor

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Applying semantic search using an ML Inference processor
```

> In this section you are going to apply semantic search on facts about New York City. First you will create an ingest pipeline

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this section, you'll run semantic search on facts about New York City. First, you'll create an ingest pipeline
```

> using the ML inference processor to create embeddings on ingestion. Then create a search pipeline to run a search using

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
using the ML inference processor in order to generate embeddings on ingestion. Then, you'll create a search pipeline to run a search using
```

the same asymmetric embedding model. 

## 2. Create an ingest pipeline

> ### 2.1 Create the test KNN index

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### 2.1 Create a test KNN index
```

      "knn": true,
      "knn.algo_param.ef_search": 100
    }
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties":  {
      "fact_embedding": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 384,
        "method": {
          "name": "hnsw",
          "space_type": "l2",
          "engine": "nmslib",
          "parameters": {
            "ef_construction": 128,
            "m": 24
          }
        } 
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### 2.2 Create an ingest pipeline

```
PUT _ingest/pipeline/asymmetric_embedding_ingest_pipeline
{
	"description": "ingest passage text and generate a embedding using an asymmetric model",
	"processors": [
		{
			"ml_inference": {

				"model_input": "{\"text_docs\":[\"${input_map.text_docs}\"],\"target_response\":[\"sentence_embedding\"],\"parameters\":{\"content_type\":\"query\"}}",
				"function_name": "text_embedding",
				"model_id": "{{ _.model_id }}",
				"input_map": [
					{
						"text_docs": "description"
					}
				],
				"output_map": [
					{
						"fact_embedding": "$.inference_results[0].output[0].data",
						"embedding_size": "$.inference_results.*.output.*.shape[0]"
					}
				]
			}
		}
	]
}
```

> ### 2.3 Simulate pipeline

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### 2.3 Simulate the pipeline
```

> - Case1: two book objects with title

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Simulate the pipeline by running the following request:
```

```
POST /_ingest/pipeline/asymmetric_embedding_ingest_pipeline/_simulate
{
   "docs": [
	  {
         "_index": "my-index",
         "_id": "1",
         "_source": {
             "title": "Central Park",
             "description": "A large public park in the heart of New York City, offering a wide range of recreational activities."
         }
		}
	]
}
```

> Response

Reviewer 4: Add a descriptive sentence starting with "The response contains..."

```
{
   "docs": [
      {
         "doc": {
             "_index": "my-index",
             "_id": "1",
             "_source": {
                 "description": "A large public park in the heart of New York City, offering a wide range of recreational activities.",
                 "fact_embedding": [
                     [
                         0.06344555,
                         0.30067796,
                         ...
                         0.014804064,
                         -0.022822019						
                     ]
                 ],
                 "title": "Central Park",
                 "embedding_size": [
                     384.0
                 ]
             },
             "_ingest": {
                 "timestamp": "2024-12-16T20:59:07.152169Z"
             }
         }
      }
	]
}
```

> ### 2.4 Test ingest data

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### 2.4 Test data ingestion
```

> Perform bulk ingestion, this will now trigger the ingest pipeline to have embeddings for each document.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When you perform bulk ingestion, the ingest pipeline will generate embeddings for each document:
```

{ "index": { "_index": "nyc_facts" } }
{ "title": "Rockefeller Center", "description": "A famous complex of commercial buildings in Manhattan, home to the NBC studios and the annual ice skating rink." }
{ "index": { "_index": "nyc_facts" } }
{ "title": "Queens Botanical Garden", "description": "A peaceful, beautiful botanical garden located in Flushing, Queens, featuring seasonal displays and plant collections." }
{ "index": { "_index": "nyc_facts" } }
{ "title": "Arthur Ashe Stadium", "description": "The largest tennis stadium in the world, located in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, hosting the U.S. Open." }
{ "index": { "_index": "nyc_facts" } }
{ "title": "Wave Hill", "description": "A public garden and cultural center in the Bronx, offering stunning views of the Hudson River and a variety of nature programs." }
{ "index": { "_index": "nyc_facts" } }
{ "title": "Louis Armstrong House", "description": "The former home of jazz legend Louis Armstrong, located in Corona, Queens, now a museum celebrating his life and music." }

```

## 3. Run Semantic Search

> ### 3.1 Create the Search Pipeline

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### 3.1 Create a search pipeline
```

> Create the search pipeline which will convert your query into a embedding and run KNN on the index to return the best documents.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Create a search pipeline that will convert your query into a embedding and run a k-NN search on the index to return the best-matching documents:
```

```
PUT /_search/pipeline/asymmetric_embedding_search_pipeline
{
   "description": "ingest passage text and generate a embedding using an asymmetric model",
   "request_processors": [
      {
        "ml_inference": {
            "query_template": "{\"size\": 3,\"query\": {\"knn\": {\"fact_embedding\": {\"vector\": ${query_embedding},\"k\": 4}}}}",
            "function_name": "text_embedding",
            "model_id": "{{ _.model_id }}",
            "model_input": "{ \"text_docs\": [\"${input_map.query}\"], \"target_response\": [\"sentence_embedding\"], \"parameters\" : {\"content_type\" : \"query\" } }",
            "input_map": [
               {
                  "query": "query.term.fact_embedding.value"
               }
            ],
            "output_map": [
               {
                  "query_embedding": "$.inference_results[0].output[0].data",
                  "embedding_size": "$.inference_results.*.output.*.shape[0]"
               }
            ]
         }
      }
   ]
}

```

### 3.1 Run Semantic Search

> In this scenario we are going to see the top 3 results, when asking about sporting activities in New York City.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Run a query about sporting activities in New York City:
```

```
GET /nyc_facts/_search?search_pipeline=asymmetric_embedding_search_pipeline
{
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "fact_embedding": {
        "value": "What are some places for sports in NYC?",
       "boost": 1 
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> Which yields the following 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The response contains the top 3 matching documents:
```

# Tutorial: Running Asymmetric Semnantic Search within OpenSearch

This tutorial demonstrates how generating text embeddings using an asymmetric embedding model in OpenSearch. The embeddings will be used
to run semantic search, implemented using a Docker container. The example model used in this tutorial is the multilingual
`intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` model from Hugging Face. 
You will learn how to prepare the model, register it in OpenSearch, and run inference to generate embeddings.

> **Note**: Make sure to replace all placeholders (e.g., `your_`) with your specific values.

---

## Prerequisites

> - Docker Desktop installed and running on your local machine.

Reviewer 3: IMO this can be confusing to customers. Why docker desktop installation needs to be a Prerequisite to run asymmetric embedding model.

Reviewer 3: Prerequisites can be a running OS cluster and then may be add a link how to setup OS cluster if you want.

- Basic familiarity with Docker and OpenSearch.
- Access to the Hugging Face `intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` model (or another model of your choice).
---

## Step 1: Spin up a Docker OpenSearch cluster

To run OpenSearch in a local development environment, you can use Docker and a preconfigured `docker-compose` file.

### a. Create a Docker Compose File

You can use this sample [file](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#sample-docker-compose-file-for-development) as an example.
Once your `docker-compose.yml` file is created, run the following command to start OpenSearch in the background:

```
docker-compose up -d

> ```

Reviewer 3: I think this part is bit unnecessary. We can assume customer already setup their cluster and then come here to setup a model?

Author: I understand your view point I figured it would be nice to provide a tutorial with a docker setup since there aren't many of them in our repo. Although, we can introduce the header with something along the lines of You can skip step 1 if you want to do it your own way.

Reviewer 3: I agree that we don't have any docker setup tutorial in our repo, but I think that responsibility lies in Core. May be we can add url for opensearch setup in general. My worry that, customer might think that they need docker setup for asynmmetric models, which is not the case.

### b. Update cluster settings

Ensure your cluster is configured to allow registering models. You can do this by updating the cluster settings using the following request:

```
PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "plugins.ml_commons.allow_registering_model_via_url": "true",
    "plugins.ml_commons.only_run_on_ml_node": "false",
    "plugins.ml_commons.model_access_control_enabled": "true",
    "plugins.ml_commons.native_memory_threshold": "99"
  }
}
```

This configuration ensures that OpenSearch can accept machine learning models from external URLs and can run models across non-ML nodes.

---

## Step 2: Prepare the model for OpenSearch

In this tutorial, you’ll use the Hugging Face `intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` model, which is capable of generating multilingual embeddings. Follow these steps to prepare and zip the model for use in OpenSearch.

### a. Clone the model from Hugging Face

To download the model, use the following steps:

> 1. Install Git Large File Storage (LFS) if you haven’t already:

Reviewer 3: Seems like we should release this model from our [pre-trained model repository](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/pretrained-models/) so that customer can easily register this model?

Author: What is the process to introduce the model (to the model repository)?

Reviewer 3: We can discuss offline more about this. But this is an example of the [model tracing workflow](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py-ml/actions/runs/10357363209) from opensearch-py-ml

# Tutorial: Running Asymmetric Semnantic Search within OpenSearch

This tutorial demonstrates how generating text embeddings using an asymmetric embedding model in OpenSearch. The example model used in this tutorial is the multilingual
`intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` model from Hugging Face.
In this tutorial, you'll learn how to prepare the model, register it in OpenSearch, and run inference to generate embeddings.

> **Note**: Make sure to replace all placeholders (e.g., `your_`) with your specific values.

---

## Prerequisites

- OpenSearch installed on your machine
- Access to the Hugging Face `intfloat/multilingual-e5-small` model (or another model of your choice).
- Basic knowledge of Linux commands
---

> ## Step 1: Start OpenSearch locally

Reviewer 3: Do we care if customer started opensearch locally or with public IP? In our blue print example, we setup OS locally.

Author: Ideally locally because I have a step were I make them use python to service the model which runs on localhost:8080

Reviewer 3: if I have a OS which is running in let's say `8.8.8.8` and then if I use `8.8.8.8:8080`, won't that work?

Author: Not an expert but if two processes run on the same address like localhost but use different ports then it should be fine. Also the python server is just a one time occurrence just a means to get OS to download the model.

Reviewer 3: It should work. If we setup a OS cluster in EC2 host, we can access through the public URL and the port. So I would suggest to rephrase: `Start Opensearch` and in line 22 we can say:

Run OpenSearch and ensure the following steps are completed. In this example, we set up the OS cluster locally.

Author: Makes sense, thank you for the suggestion (addressed in commit b11cbe1).
